mini2440 FAQ
------------

These questions came up while using the Mini2440 boad support package

Q: I want to enable the "framebuffer console" support in Linux, but there is no
   menu entry to do so!
A: Enable the "virtual terminal" support first. Then the "framebuffer console"
   menu entry will occur in the menu.

Q: PTXdist fails to download an archive from the web. How to continie?
A: You can download manually the archive from a different location on the web
   (if you found one) and store it to the archive directory PTXdist is using.
   If the archive is already present, PTXdist skips the step of downloading it.

Q: I built the 64 MiB NAND configuration. Can I use it also on a Mini2440 with
   larger NAND?
A: No. The 64 MiB NAND is special and needs special configuration settings.
   Same problem the other way round.

Q: Do I have to download the source archives again and again?
A: No. Store them into a global location and run "ptxdist setup"
       Source Directories --->
           (/my_global_src_dir/) Source Directory
   Let the "Source Direcory" entry point to the global location. Now, each
   source archive gets downloaded only once.

Q: How to login?
A: Just login as 'root', without a password.

These questions came up while development of the Mini2440 boad support package.

Q: I can't login
A: A bad commit changed the names of the serial consoles to 's3c2410_serial*'
   instead of 'ttySAC*'. Problem is present at least in Linux-2.6.37, solved
   in Linux-2.6.38.

Q: I still can't login. It asks for a password, even there is no for user root
A: If you run your Mini2440 via 'NFS root filesystem' the Mini2440's user root
   needs also root permissions on the used 'NFS root filesystem'. But without
   a special parameter the NFS server daemon does not grant root permissions to
   external hosts. Use the 'no_root_squash' parameter to the exported filesystem
   in '/etc/exports'. But keep in mind, this will open a huge security hole into
   your machine. So, never export your whole filesystem in this way, only the
   required paths to make your targets work.

Q: The NAND flash driver shows flash's content only once. After that, it reports
   zeroes only.
A: Don't use the 'Samsung S3C NAND IDLE clock stop' feature. It seems broken
   at least in the 2.6.37 kernel. Fixed in 2.6.39.

Q: Linux states "mtd: no mtd-id" while startup
A: The mtdparts parameter should not contain a trailing semicolon, as its meant
   to be as a delimiter and no end marker. Fixed. Related to the bootloader.

Q: Linux states while startup:
     gpiochip_add: gpios 288..303 (GPIOK) failed to register
     gpiochip_add: gpios 320..334 (GPIOL) failed to register
     gpiochip_add: gpios 352..353 (GPIOM) failed to register
A: The kernel tries to register more GPIO settings than the S3C2440 supports.
   Can be ignored.

Q: Linux states "nand_bbt: ECC error while reading bad block table"
A: barebox has written this BBT. So both are using a different ECC calculation.
   You probably use a barebox with broken S3C2440 NAND controller support.
   Only the barebox-2011.03.0 or later does it in a correct manner.

Q: With a working barebox I now get
     Bad block table found at page <number>, version 0x01
     Bad block table found at page <number>, version 0x01
     nand_bbt: ECC error while reading bad block table
   What's wrong now?
A: After writing the BBT with a broken NAND driver, the OOB data is now bad.
   You must erase these blocks first before re-use. TBD: How to?

Q: My jffs2 root filesystem does not work properly after writing to the NAND
A: The 64 MiB NAND needs an erase blocksize of 16 kiB, all other NANDs are
   needing a 128 kiB erase block size.

Q: Why did you modify the touch driver?
A: The mainline one is broken by design or simply racy. Just add some debug
   outputs to the touch or ADC driver and you can see it.

Generic:

Q: The 'rcS' file from ptxdist fails to mount 'sys/'
A: If you are using 'mount' and 'umount' from the 'util-linux-ng' package you
   must also setup the file '/etc/mtab' as a link to '/proc/mounts'
   (e.g. "PTXCONF_ROOTFS_MTAB_LINK_MOUNTS=y")
